=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

libnet-config - script to get information about, and for linking against libnet

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<libnet-config [--help] | [--version] | [--prefix] | [--libs --cflags --defines]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

libnet-config tells the application programmer what flags to use to compile and
link programs against an installed L<libnet> library.

An alternative (and perhaps more convenient) method of retrieving the various
configuration information needed to compile programs that use libnet is to use
the L<pkg-config(1)> program. Pkg-config support was added in version 1.2.

Both methods write to standard output the flags that should be used to compile
and link programs that use libnet.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<--help>

Print a usage message and exit. This is the default behavior when no options are
specified.

=item B<--version>

Print version information and exit.

=item B<--libs>

Print the linker flags (LDFLAGS) that are necessary to link a programs with
libnet.

=item B<--cflags>

Print the compiler options (CFLAGS) to use when compiling files that use libnet.
Currently that is only the include path to the libnet include files.

=item B<--defines>

Print the pre-processor definitions libnet was compiler with.

=item B<--prefix>

Print the prefix used when libnet was installed. The prefix can be set during
the build process with "configure --prefix".

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To print all linker options needed when linking with libnet, use

B<C<libnet-config --libs>>

To build the singe-file C program 'prog' against the libnet library, use

B<C<gcc $(libnet-config --cflags --defines --libs) progr.c -o progr>>

The same in a Makefile:

B<CFLAGS+=$(shell libnet-config --cflags --defines )>

B<LDFLAGS+=$(shell libnet-config --libs)>

B<all: prog>

To build a dynamically loadable libnet module, use

B<C<gcc $(libnet-config --cflags --defines --libs) -shared -fPIC progr.cpp -o progr.so>>

Note that libnet-config can also be called from 'configure' scripts.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<libnet(3)>, L<pkg-config(1)>

=head1 AUTHORS

This manual page was written by Ali Abdulkadir <autostart.ini@gmail.com>

=cut

